## History as a comfort


*"2016 - worst year ever"*

*"It's 2018! Why aren't we past this?"*

*"When will 2020 be over?"*

A common trope these days is to lament current affairs by cursing the calendar. Modernity promised a future of sleek efficiency
and equity, yet reality brought civil unrest, a overheated planet, a cartoon president, and a worldwide pandemic. How can a reasonable person
be anything but distraught?

The answer, it turns out, is to read a little history.

*Any* history. American History. European history. Ancient south asian history. It doesn't particularly matter. 
Of course the events, cultural and religous traditions, and technologies will vary considerably. But the more you familiarize yourself
with the general dynamics of past events, the more patterns that transcend any of the aforementioned specificities emerge.

An American may be concerned with increasing inequality and a slide towards oligarchy. Indeed, so were the late republican Romans,
and the great champion of the people and land reform, Julius Caesar. Or perhaps that American believes the political diviseness is at an all time high. Perhaps, but at least congressional discourse
has avoided direct violence, something the US legislature failed to do prior to the outbreak of a war that claimed 3-5% of the
nation as casualties. Or maybe we mourn the never before seen impacts of the Corona Virus, forgetting the statistics of the 1918 Spanish flu.

This is not to discount the reality of current struggles. They are, no matter how you weigh or prioritize, real challenges, that we must confront. 
But it is arrogant to believe that this particular moment stands out, because it does not if any sort of long term perspective is applied. 
History is a struggle against death, famine, disease, war, and pestilence, and even if things are twice as worse as we realize,
they are not the existential threats that have faced humanity for most of our existence.

The reason I plead for some perspective is not to take the role of a scold, but to offer a comfort. By recognizing that
our challenges aren't quite as extreme as what recent memory would suggest, we can gain a measure of clarity. The challenges
in front of us are nothing new. Technology twists age old challenges into new forms, yet they remain age old challenges. There is,
after all, nothing new under the sun. With this wisdom, we may leave behind our hysteria, fear, and anxiety for a sobriety
that recognizes these struggles are eternal, and the core of human existence.
